---
youtube_id: mecvIg1sXik
tags: transcript
---

foreign
[music]
ation how you doing i got a head spinner
of an episode for you today we are
talking about network allergies with
christopher vitale who is an associate
professor of media studies and is in the
graduate program in media studies at the
pratt institute in brooklyn new york
he's the author of the book
networkologies a philosophy of networks
for a hyper-connected age and we talk
about the questions of where networks
come from how they change and develop
what conditions may lead to their and
our continued flourishing and we talk
about why this is such an important
topic for the 21st century endows the
network is increasingly one of the
fundamental metaphors that have
described the character of our age we
have the internet you're listening
through this through a podcast listener
that is connected through a network of
computers and so this is a network that
you're using to listen to a podcast
about networkologies and i just think
that it's it's beautiful the way
christopher can use this network lens to
talk about why networks are so important
and how to dissect biological systems as
networks economic systems as networks
and you start to see networks everywhere
around you after talking to christopher
for an hour it's that scene in the
matrix where i think neo sees code all
around them i'm seeing networks all
around myself after talking to
christopher for uh an hour or so and so
uh we turned the conversation in the
second half of the episode to hear
christopher's thoughts about dows and
the ethereum network what would it look
like if we could program our values into
our money and we could build a
decentralized highly relational network
of local currencies and of dows that
help create human thriving i mean this
is to land it in greenpill terms is how
do we use networks of programmable money
and networks of humans to create change
of self and change of system in order to
create human thriving to regenerate the
world and so it's it's kind of an
interesting meeting of networkologies in
greenpill for this episode for me and i
just learned a lot from talking to
christopher i think he's very very lucid
and complements the greenpill
methodology a lot there are a few
episodes where i will go way far outside
of the web 3 space in order to bring a
guest in and and give them a little
greenpill and to to bring them to you
and christopher is one of those people
actually read network allergies because
vince horn one of my friends in the web
3 ecosystem recommended it to me and
it's just it's just mind-blowing stuff i
mean looking at the lens of networks
across everything in the world is so
important in which we're trying to
disrupt the corporate hierarchies of the
world and bring more of the working
world in the economic world into
networks which are hopefully better for
the median citizen than being at the
bottom of some corporate hierarchy where
your ceo makes a thousand fifty million
times more than you so lots of divergent
thoughts in this networkologies episode
i recommend that you check out the book
link in the show notes and read along as
you listen along and christopher is just
a really lucid articulate thinker and
really enjoyed the conversation with him
i think you're going to enjoy the
conversation as well so without further
ado i give you christopher vitale the
author of networkologies goldfinch is a
decentralized credit protocol with a
mission to connect the world's capital
to the world's growth goldfinch focuses
on real yields from real companies so
you can stop worrying about the latest
crypto ponzi and start lending your usdc
to real businesses driving growth
worldwide by lending to goldfinch you
can drive change by expanding access to
d5's global potential goldfinches
borrowers are proven fintech and credit
funds in emerging markets who need
access to goldfinches capital to drive
economic growth in regions faced with
barriers to financial access in just
under two years goldfish has loaned over
a hundred million uscc reaching over a
million people in businesses across 28
countries with financing from the
protocol's borrowers goldfinch is doing
what d5 was always meant to do expanding
financial access to those who have
historically been shut out of the
tradify system learn how you can put
your uscc to work empowering real
business growth worldwide at
goldfinch.finance working in web3 is
awesome it's freeing powerful and so
much fun but working outside of the
typical w-2 employee structure is a deal
breaker for so many people opolis is
helping the self-solving worker focus on
what they do best their work while
office manages the back end there's a
lot of nation state overhead when
working in web 3. andopolis takes care
of all of the back end stuff freeing you
up to do what you do best your work
opolis leverages group buying power
through a community employment co-op
helping you save 20 to 50 on high
quality affordable health care options
through cigna so do what you love and
maintain your financial security with
oculus you must be authorized to work
inside the united states to receive
office's benefits but optus is expanding
its services to canada starting on june
1st of next year so book a 30-minute
free consultation with oculus experts
and join opolis by december 31st to get
a thousand work and a thousand bank
tokens go to
connect.opolis.com bankless to get
started christopher hey how's it going
how are you nice to meet you yeah
likewise really thrilled to have this
conversation when i read networkologies
it was just neurons firing everywhere
and so finally got you to come on green
pill and and talk about the book network
ologies and philosophy for of networks
for a hyper-connected age so can you
tell me what inspired you to write this
book
sure uh you know i guess when i i first
learned about how artificial neural
networks work uh and notions like back
propagation and you know sort of the
honen networks and you know the
self-assorting feature maps all the
stuff that's making the new ai do what
it does uh you know especially when
we're talking about stuff like facial
recognition it sort of felt like the
stuff i was trying to do with philosophy
had found a concrete manifestation uh
you know where uh we now have sort of an
understanding at least in a sort of
digital diagrammatic form of what neural
processes might be like that could
produce something similar to human
cognition uh that was organic that was
you know sort of inspired by uh living
forms
um and that was distributed and
metastable in ways that really could
sync up with complex system science
so i wanted to sort of take these sort
of relational leanings in philosophy and
the science of emergence uh you know in
terms of say complex system signs stuff
like that and tied into developments and
neuroscience and artificial intelligence
in ways that could
um you know do what i think philosophy
does best
um which is try to talk about big
picture stuff
um you know like generalize you know you
have things from science you have things
from technology but trying to find ways
to uh develop linkages to culture and
history and value and stuff
yeah i i know that we started talking a
little bit about artificial intelligence
and neural networks there for a little
bit but one of the things that i think
was a really interesting frame at the
start of the book was talking about how
the network is increasingly one of the
fundamental metaphors that have
described the character of our age and i
think that that was a reference to the
internet but you actually talk further
about neural networks in the brain and
how a chair could be a network of of
atoms that compose it and so you maybe
ai is sort of the tip of the spear for
you but looking at everything around you
as a network of interconnected things
that are defined by their relationship
to each other is that a fair broadening
of the scope oh yeah absolutely uh i
mean i think relational world views are
as old as philosophical thinking and
they tend to be the norm uh in many
traditions around the world other than
that of you know what tends to be called
the west you know the say the european
greco euro kind of thing
um but yeah relational thinking is old
and you know you could clearly really
argue that
um networks aren't as new as we might
think
um you know cells or networks uh you
know atoms and molecules or networks and
so i think maybe we just are able to see
some of these things now that we have
the sort of lenses that have been
provided by this new networked age uh so
people you know are no longer looking at
the world and you know cells and things
of that sort as like you know just
serial you know linkages of you know
binary switches they're they're looking
at it more on the model of networks that
grow organically like the internet or
you know like the way in which we learn
things in a brain so yeah
yeah looking at the they got the book
right in front of me and and it goes
through at the start uh the following
network network illogical principles so
relation process holography practice
practicality intermediation and
emergence are the the principles of the
networks i don't know if you have
anything to say about those but i i
thought it was neat to sort of break it
down to the first order principles there
yeah no i mean everything i'm doing
tries to take the structure of networks
as sort of a model and you know make
that resonate with a wide variety of
things and culture language economies uh
things of that sort and so the way i
break down in the book is that if you
look at how networks are understood what
are the elements of networks
um you know everyone talks about nodes
and links uh if we're talking about you
know say how this goes back to the
mathematics of graph theory you talk
about edges and vertexes instead but you
know nodes and links in common parlance
um but then there are these two other
aspects that tend to get overlooked and
that's the background uh what i call
grounds
um you know in terms of say like you
know the gestalt psychologists were
talking about a figure versus the ground
and how you can't really think one
without thinking the other or c one
without the other being implicit in some
way
um and then the issue of the emergence
of a network it has to always come from
somewhere in relation to a process and
so what i'm doing takes these four sort
of elements of networks the node link
ground and process of emergence of an
entire network which usually manifests
as a level of a network the way in which
networks are nested in each other uh to
use that as a sort of structure for an
entire way to think about thinking and
linking and growing uh that can be then
uh you know threaded through a variety
of different domains to think about
natural phenomena political phenomena
cultural that sort of thing right
you know i i think that we're talking in
a lot of ways about the a priori
features of networks here and i'd love
to get really empirical uh just to
ground this in the listener's mind you
know maybe you've got a software
engineer who doesn't doesn't sort of uh
have have the vocabulary to talk about
networks from a math or a science
background or just for the general
audience can you ground this in an
empirical example of your favorite type
of network and how you deconstruct it
using this this language
there's a lot of possibilities uh i
would say anything that you could grab
with your hand uh anything any
experience could be understood as a node
but that node is a part of a network uh
but it's also a network itself uh that
is composed of other networks and other
nodes within those networks and that's
where the sort of fractal aspect of this
uh you know it's something where i look
at anything you could encounter as being
able to be broken down into nodes links
grounds and these sort of processes of
emergence uh individuation of distinct
things
um but yeah i mean anything chairs to
cells to molecules it's really a lens on
the world as much as anything else right
so it's maybe just to ground it for the
listener who maybe is listening
listening to this while they go for a
walk maybe they're on the subway maybe
they're on a bike ride uh that
experience could be understood as a
network of the neurons in their brain
receiving the audio input from the ear
and that gets them lost in some sort of
thought process which gets interjected
by their experience of i don't know
you're on the subway and say you stop
and so you have to shift your balance or
something like and this is me saying
back to you in layman's terms kind of
how i would reinterpret it but you know
for a listener who's listening to a
podcast how is how is that a network how
would you deconstruct that yeah i mean
there's the network of your experience
uh there's the network of the cells in
your body so we've got physical networks
versus networks of feeling versus you
know and to some extent the i'm trying
to undercut the mind-body dualism that
you know comes from people like
descartes but also when you hear people
talk about the brain versus the mind
i just think the mind is another word
for how it feels to have a brain when
you're inside that brain and so the ways
in which all the cells network together
produce this sort of agglomerated
experience but we could look at our
experience as you know when you see
something in the distance you see a
network of colors and shapes and that's
because of the way the networks of the
cells in your brain are doing what they
do and you're what that feels like
yeah yeah i i think that's really neat
and you know i think that one of the
themes on greenpill that we talk about
is is not just financial networks of
capital which is what i think crypto is
known about uh is known for but also
social networks
um experiential networks spiritual
capital being something that's exchanged
in the space cultural capital being
exchanged in this space and so you know
i i sort of taking your networks within
networks analogy sort of think about the
listener being a part of the greenpill
network which is all about exploring how
crypto could be good for the world but
also the broader crypto network which is
part of the complex system that is the
world so i'd be interested in sort of
transitioning to talking about networks
of humans that are interconnected via
the internet and maybe learning and
evolving together because that's what we
think in the dallas space that we think
that dallas can disrupt or networks can
disrupt hierarchies because networks can
learn and expand from the edges whereas
hierarchies can only deploy force in one
direction action and maybe hierarchies
are a network also but there's a
specific type of network that that comes
very top down and so i know what do you
have to say about about internet
networks is probably a lot there but i
curious where you'd start i mean when we
look at the waste uh sociologists uh
have really gotten into the study of
network phenomena uh you know like
there's just so many papers that have
been written in the last you know 10 15
years about social networks and
diagramming out how you know say the
organizational structure of a company uh
tends to be so you know top down and you
see those organization charts and then
you look at what's going on on facebook
and twitter and you can plot out social
networks that are infinitely more
organic looking more complex and
distributed
um in ways that are you know that really
look more like how nature grows things
rather than you know the sort of
top-down imposed super centralized stuff
um and you know where i think this gets
super interesting is between the
extremes because you know certainly you
could say well there's decentralized
networks and then there's centralized
networks and i think most people have
sort of you know encountered the sort of
extra dreams of thinking through like
okay like you know what goes on on the
internet is seems relatively
decentralized but then there's the
centralized level of protocol uh of the
code underneath and especially platforms
like facebook and uh you know google
that are really sort of producing
centralized uh infrastructure which is
something you talk about greenpills
um in a way that produces what what i
would think of as like a
quasi-decentralized experience it seems
decentralized in some ways but there's a
bottleneck
um and i think that's very similar to
capitalism uh you know in capitalism
there's the appearance of well you can
do anything you could buy anything you
could create anything but it's all
modulated by the system of finance and
you know if it doesn't link into the
money form in some ways
um it's kind of illegible to capital we
talk about modernization
um as soon as you start playing the game
of monetization uh there's all of the
the sort of uh background networks that
modulate things from afar like finance
and you know the stock markets right the
sort of algorithmic trading that's going
on so i think you know we tend to
think that the world is just centralized
versus decentralized and i would like to
see it more uh in terms of these sort of
hybrid structures
um and that some of these are
peer decentralized but are actually
centralized underneath and others are
much more distributed and so if you look
at sort of the way in which scientists
will talk about networks very often it's
not so much decentralized versus
centralized but distributed versus
something else and that's something else
i think is what say capitalism does it's
what big tech does uh and in my book i
call those sort of paranoid networks or
hybrid networks
um yeah i mean i know that one of the
sort of web three criticisms of web 2 is
that with let's call it i'll just pick a
random example but google you know you
take a you you search and then over time
google can build a profile of you and
then they can sell you more efficient
ads and it all runs through data
google's data data centers and i think
that
um you know in a way that's built on tcp
which the specification of is
centralized but it's running in a
diffuse way across all of these networks
of nodes across so it's so it's
decentralized in the way it's it's
implemented and but the fact that we all
agree on the standard of tcp is the
network and then further up the stack we
google has a [[network effect]] literally of
more people using google so it becomes
more useful for everyone but it all
flows through their data centers and and
i think that what ethereum is trying to
do is we're it's trying to make a group
of people agree on a consensus protocol
proof of stake through which the network
of nodes can come to consensus of what
the network of of people uh what their
balance is is or the state of the evm if
you want to get more complex than just
financial capital and the agreement of
that standard creates a [[network effect]]
but it's not flowing through vitalik
buterin's data center in the same way
that google gets all of the web traffic
in the world and so it's it's like it's
more capture resistant because although
vitalik has soft power he doesn't have
the hard power of being able to change
the consensus nodes of the network and
so you know i think that we're maybe
complexifying this a little bit but i
would posit that web 2 and web3 are
different types of of hybrid networks uh
what do you what do you think of that
yeah no i mean i think that the
potential for web 3 to be socially
disruptive is enormous and to be
socially disruptive and potentially
really good ways uh you know i think
dao's
um at least as they're currently being
formulated uh you know in terms of say
the ethereum base and consensus
mechanisms you know i think there's no
reason to think that this would not be
in some ways the future of social
organizing uh you know i mean we see the
sorts of online distributed communities
that rose up around wikipedia uh that
rose up around reddit uh clearly
ethereum is is poised to take that to a
whole next level and i think it's not
it's not a joke to say or even a stretch
to imagine that political parties
governments uh really could start to
have some competition you know these
sort of legacy institutions that it will
take time obviously but i think it's one
of those things where you know you see a
slow burn of early adopters and then all
of a sudden in a time of crisis or
opportunity uh you know that a new
platform is available in just the right
way the right time right place and then
all of a sudden you have an avalanche of
people adopting it uh and i think the
internet was that way in its early
stages you know originally people were
just like what exactly would i use this
for and then it just hit an inflection
point where everyone was using it for
everything and the transition was pretty
rapid and i think that tends to be how
technology works you get those early
adopters and you know they sort of
pioneer the space and then you just hit
a critical mass and so i think yeah web3
is going to uh you know you're gonna
start to have new types of distributed
organization of humans that can just do
with [[smart contract|smart contracts]] you know things
like distributed filmmaking and
distributed art projects and you know
distributed social movements the only
thing i worry about is what happens when
you know uh not only legacy works to
co-op this but also when you start
having extreme right wing dows extreme
fascist dows you know like we have to
think about
um how these new technologies would be
appropriated
um and used in ways that might not be
um you know you speak a lot about public
goods
um you know i worry about like when
people define public and good in some
very exclusive ways that these could be
disruptive technologies that are also
not not helpful not good ones and maybe
dangerous ones so i think any technology
has that potential we need to think
about that uh when things are in their
infancy so we could set up structures
that can keep things egalitarian yeah
yeah i mean i think that there's a lot
there and i think i would summarize a
lot of what you said by the in the in
the frame of uh web threes network
allergies plus finance networked finance
networked collective organizing and it
can be very socially disruptive but how
do we make sure it's actually good for
the world instead of just socially
disruptive and in many different
directions is that a fair summary
uh i i don't you know i
web 3 is its own thing and you know i
don't know if it's necessarily network
network allergies a set of lenses to
look at the world you know it's like
it's it's a wager it's like if we look
at everything in the world through the
network you know through the lens of
networks what does the world look like
what do we what does that allow us to
see that we couldn't see before whereas
web free is a new set of technologies
and you know i think the consensus
mechanisms the the sort of uh you know
very specific types of tokenization
purpose-driven tokens and you know like
there's all sorts of new ways of
creating social links and i think you
know
the question is what is what are the
stakes of that where could that lead
yeah
yeah i mean you know i would love to
spend the rest of the episode or at
least another 20 minutes just talking
about these network network logical
principles and applying them to dallas
and web3 i mean you know like to me
there's some very obvious examples like
dow forks or forks of any code is kind
of like a practicality of the web 3
based network everything here is open
source um the emergence of how gitcoin
dial works basically is that every
quarter it has a governance
governance process and then it runs a
grants round and what emerges
iteratively over that is is sort of the
direction that get coined out is is
evolving and then the relationship of
the nodes of the the people in each
network uh say in ens if i buy an ens
domain then that makes the network more
valuable for everyone else because
there's more people who have ens there's
a [[network effect]] because of the
relationality of the people in there so
i mean those are the obvious examples
for me when i take these principles and
i apply them to dowels but you know i'm
clear i'm curious to just sort of take
your expertise on networks and take that
lens and apply it to web3 like what do
you what do you think of web3 i guess is
the most broad question that i can
follow you back to you oh i mean we're
at the tip of the iceberg i mean web3 i
don't think there's any any reason to
think it wouldn't be revolutionary and
you know whenever you introduce a new
technology it tends to be as destructive
as much as creative uh even if in just
pushing legacy mechanisms to the side
um so you know i think it's hard to
imagine what's going to happen but you
know i think you do need to think from
the earliest stages like what happens
when hyper right wing movements you know
start thinking in these terms and can
can things be done now to make it more
difficult to co-op this stuff for forms
of you know traditional capitalism and
things of that nature uh what i tend to
do with my work is to look at
um emergence as a phenomena uh which is
you know where a lot of the science of
networks is studying how emergencies
happen how
um in natural systems in economic
systems you have the sort of
um sort of spontaneous production of new
forms of complexity once certain factors
are there and so studying like what are
the factors that make things robust that
make them resilient that tend to lead to
the spontaneous growth of sustainable
complexity uh and creativity and i think
you know the best thing we can do there
is study how it works in nature and
study biological processes and social
processes that we already look at and
we're just like wow that's great that
fosters creative development it's
sustainable how can we reproduce some of
those features in our you know sort of
uh attempts to structure web 3 uh you
know tokens structure incentive
mechanisms uh various forms of you know
proof of work proof of stake those sorts
of uh ways in which we create the smart
contracts because if we're thinking game
theoretic here
um i think you know people really do
make decisions based on incentives but i
think it's also very difficult a lot of
the time to determine which incentives
are operative in a given social domain
whether there might not be multiple
forms of incentives and how uh we might
oversimplify like i was looking uh you
know with sort of what happened with
some of the earlier dows and how they uh
didn't expect certain types of attacks
based on uh the way they structure their
incentive structure and you know got
wiped out pretty early on
um and so you know thinking through the
ways in which
um legacy forms of incentive uh might
relate to the ways in which they're
structured in [[smart contract|smart contracts]] in
unexpected ways yeah you know you know
as you're speaking sort of about the
emergence of this ecosystem i was
reminded of the episode that i did with
chase chapman who's kind of a uh a
really og and uh smart doll person but
she was talking about this thing called
gals law which is basically that a more
complex system can evolve in from a more
simple system so you've got you just
start out with a more simple system and
then that's wrong but being wrong is the
only way to be right and then you evolve
that simple system into a more complex
system and i see that in if you look at
the dao from 2016 which was grew so fast
into like holding eight percent of all
ether and then it got hacked and then it
collapsed yeah that's the one i'm
thinking of yes yeah and then and then
but so amin solimani launched molokdao
in 2018 2019 and all that was was a
[[smart contract]] that except you could
join it you could submit proposals and
then you could do this thing called rage
quit which was exited and it was just a
much simpler state machine that i i
think it more is more representative guy
law and now we've evolved as an
ecosystem hundreds of different moloch
dials from that simple instruction set
so uh yeah i mean the embracing that
evolutionarily is i think maybe
something that the ecosystem had to
learn through the years well i think you
know when i say looking at natural sort
of models for inspiration uh yeah
something like bird flocking and or the
schooling of fish and the the
simulations that are done of these
because you can't use differential
equations to model what's going on
there's too many too many agents too
many forms of relationality at too many
levels of scale you just get your
variables though off the chart and you
know we just there's too many
nonlinearities in the equations
essentially
um and so that's why they found that you
know we could just create uh simulations
that you know have a couple of very
basic agents that follow a couple of
very little interaction rules and all of
a sudden you get your virtual birds uh
to flock and i think simulation
um you know especially when you use uh
you know basic agents to do agent-based
modeling can i think help
um sort of
perhaps anticipate some of the things
that could go wrong in various ways
um but i think they it also indicates
the ways in which you know as
um as you mentioned simplicity often
gives rise to massive complexity in the
right interactional sort of domains uh
and that's why the the work i'm doing
now is looking at what are the factors
that potentiate emergence uh and you
know from all the science that i can you
know piece together because complex
really they do disagree on some of this
stuff it's more like we know it when we
see it but if you look at if you boil
down all the different perspectives
um in the work i'm doing
um i i basically break it down to four
things right a diversity of the
materials uh relationality of the
connections
um the sort of distributedness of the
structure
um especially in relationship to grounds
and contexts and then meta stability in
terms of the process
and it's particularly these last two
distributedness of organization and meta
stability of its dynamics uh those are
the things that i think tend to be left
out of engineered systems and when you
have them in nature they just tend to
potentiate things enormously and so the
more distributed your structure uh and
the more meta-stable the organization
you know neither stable nor unstable uh
but right on the cusp you know sort of a
maximum tolerable chaos uh you know on
the on the edge of chaos as the
scientists kind of say yeah not chaotic
but not unchaotic
that's where you get those interesting
accidents occur that just be the
production of new creative direction
yeah right well next time uh someone
says the dow is chukatic i'm gonna say
we're at the point of maximal tolerable
okay chaotic which is actually about
what a full rebrand does meta stability
and and it'll be a good thing but but
you know what now but that feels like a
real alpha leak those four criteria for
uh
uh for emergence um could we go over
them real quick one more time uh i know
we ended with meta stability well just
sort of just um the
differentiation that produces the
diversity of materials and then
interrelated forms of networking
interconnectedness and then when we're
talking about
um you know sort of distributedness
particularly uh modes of organization
but in relation to context as well and
then meta stability of dynamics so
essentially diversity networking
distributedness
um and metastability right yeah that
just triggered another thought for me uh
we're gonna have david ehrlichmann on
the pod soon and he wrote a book called
[[impact network|impact networks]] and one of the key
points of that was the strength of the
relationships and the trust and the
rapport of the people in your network is
actually
the network's value and its ability to
get stuff done so that reminded me of
the second point there of the relations
between the nodes what's interesting you
know is people who have studied uh the
most effective sorts of cultural capital
uh and the ways in which uh networks are
resilient and robust and creative it's
not the strongest links that tend to
really potentiate thing it's it's the
weaker links and so you hear a lot of
network scientists will talk about the
strength of weak ties uh the sort of you
know it's it's the ties that are you
know perhaps you wouldn't think to use
them but in the right situation those
become the key to everything and so we
started discussions of things like small
worldedness
um and the ways it's a term that they
use in the science to talk about
um neither too many nor too few links
but also varying numbers of links
between the different nodes that some
remain more locally focused some remain
more long distance focused and you get
this sort of modularity uh and best of
all worlds kind of thing where you you
know you have some nodes that can hyper
focus some that really special it's an
interconnection and that's how organisms
work you know you have nerves that are
more specialized with long distance
stuff versus you know sort of
specialized organs that each play their
role so again a lot of this is coming
from the study of natural processes yeah
i think this is so beautiful to use
biomimicry and studying economic systems
as a way of understanding networks
because you can just see what's
organically emerged and by the way these
are complex systems i mean crypto
economic systems are a subset of
economic systems social systems which
are complex and the complex systems are
complicated like it's it's literally in
the name and so just having an allegory
to biology and economics i think i think
matters a lot what else is there to
learn there
well i mean i think capitalism you look
at capitalism and the first thing that
comes to my mind is cancer uh you know
like capitalism is a structure that
produces a how much that homogeneous
product and it's yeah everything gets
reduced to quantities of the same thing
and those who have more of that same
thing are able to sort of bias the
playing field and this is where you know
things like protecting against civil
attacks and stuff you know when when you
look at how dows are structured you're
trying to make sure that uh those who
have more capital in the legacy space
can't necessarily have more capital in
you know sort of the structure of a dow
um you know so i think trying to find
ways to defeat homogenization
um and it's not just homogenization in
terms of say capital i think uh you know
you look at the histories of capitalism
and slavery and capitalism evolve
together uh that you know they they
co-produced each other and i don't think
it's an accident that uh the large
majority of people in the world today
who have the most capital if you look at
the ceos of the boardrooms across the
world they're mostly white to this day
and i don't think that's an accident i
you know and i think capital is a mirror
of the values of those who have it and
those who have more but get to project
their vision of the world upon it and
you know unfortunately then that becomes
unsustainable it ends up you know really
destroying the resource base and i think
we need to think about the ways in which
capital is white in our world it's part
of the legacy of european colonialism
and destruction and uh if you look at
sort of a reproduction of the same that
sort of brings everything into resonance
with its structure and homogenizes and
you know centralizes control uh you know
biologically speaking it's it may be
decentralized but it's still cancerous
and so you look at the way cancer
spreads throughout the body it's
reproduction of the same yet it has this
way of sort of threading into every
aspect of a body uh in a way that is
decentralized and that's the sort of
thing that you know it's decentralized
in the sense that it you know it doesn't
have a organizational center but it has
the same logic at work
uh and so i think there's a lot of
analogies between how cancer is
structured and racial capitalism in our
world today the world has woken up to
refi and celo is here for it celo is the
layer one for the [[regenerative finance]]
movement it's fast planet positive and
built for the real world celo has
committed to producing a sustainable
future from day one and has built its
technology around one of the lowest
carbon impact consensus mechanisms and
is the world's first carbon negative evm
compatible layer 1 blockchain cello is a
movement to create the conditions of
prosperity for everyone whether it's
tokenizing carbon credits with toucan
providing capital to underserved
communities with unicorn or building for
millions of users around the globe cello
was created to transform crypto
enthusiasts into a movement of change
makers follow along on twitter at
celloorg to learn more about how cello
is accelerating refi for a positive
lasting impact on people communities and
the planet and if you're a builder
interested in refi be sure to join the
build with sellout hackathon live now
with a prize pool of over a hundred
thousand dollars coin shift is a leading
treasury management and infrastructure
platform for dows and crypto businesses
that need to manage their treasury
operations every crypto org needs to
manage its treasury and coinshift offers
a simple flexible and efficient
multi-chain treasury management platform
built on top of the highly secure gnosis
safe with coin shift your organization
can go from primitive single chain
treasury management to expressive
flexible and multi-chain treasury
features such as global user management
global contacts proposal management and
many other features that can be shared
across an entire organization allowing
users to save time and reduce
operational burdens and gas costs
coinshift even has data tools like
account reporting across the seven
chains on which it operates used by
industry powerhouses such as uniswap
grants balancer consensus and massari
coin shift is speeding up their
coordination and efficiency of the
organizations that use it you have to
keep up with the frontier and coin shift
makes that easy so sign up at
coinshift.xyz slash bankless you know
it's interesting what came to mind for
me when you were talking about this
little a is you know know the mola
[[coordination failure]] thing which you you
and i have corresponded a little bit
about but also the this idea of the
matthew effect which is colloquially
known as the rich get richer but it
really is the compounding gains that
come with any accumulated capital uh so
basically like the famous get more
famous kim kardashian's audience is
growing faster than mine because there's
the compounding gains that come from
that and over time this has led to
economic systems that end in revolution
because the capital gets so concentrated
you know in your example it's it's it's
western uh sort of like upper middle
class sorry upper upper class white
people but um but like in generally
their economic systems will tend to will
tend to concentrate over time and to me
the the mirror that i see there is with
with cancer uh there's a coordination
protocol around how cells divide in your
in your your body and cells can just
decide to go rogue and then a tumor
forms and because they're the tumor
because the the cancer cells are growing
so much faster and consuming more
resources than everything else then it
sort of starts to eat the system it
metastizes and it needs the system that
it's in and so
um it feels like to me there's a strong
corollary between the coordination
failure of cancer and the coordination
failure of the matthew effect there and
if you view them both as networks then
then maybe there's an analog there but
you know i'm curious where that takes
you in your mind yeah i mean the matthew
effect is you know when you talk to
economists they'll talk about it as the
the rich get richer kind of concept uh
and and i think this is a false analogy
because
um you know
in some sense it's it's the very
principle of learning uh is you know you
test something out in the world and you
see if it works and if it works you do
more of it you reinforce it yeah and the
thing that works most consistently gets
reinforced and so you could imagine that
the neural populations in your brain
that are getting reinforced are you know
the rich getting richer the more
powerful getting more powerful i don't
think that's necessarily bad in and of
itself
um i think where things become bad is
where they're excluding uh other types
of things uh and so if you look in the
brain it's not just
um reinforcement of the same there's
also i mean the starting point of the
brain is essentially
in a massive disconnected mess of
infancy uh your brain is just a
hyper-connected hot mess of connections
uh and that's part of what makes us able
to learn like sponges when we're infants
because everything is so near random
um that you know all sorts of
connections can come about and yes
there's a pruning process where that
which uh seems to work to the organism
is reinforced and so reinforcement
learning is kind of the way the brain
functions but it also based on an
incredibly random set of starting points
and it's always multiple pathways in the
brain to accomplish anything uh you know
i think people would tend to think that
oh you've got one section of your brain
that does one thing or you know uh you
know people used to talk about
grandmother cells like there's one part
of your brain where your grandma lives
um and it's likely that there's several
of those and they're slightly varied and
they compete with each other and that's
because everything in the brain is
multiple and so you know this is where i
think the rich get richer yes in society
that's very often the case because we
reinforce it yeah when we start thinking
about cancer i think what makes cancer
so dangerous is that it tends to be the
same type of cell that just
reproduces itself in a way that has
nothing to do with the relationality to
what's around it uh so these cells don't
produce anything that's beneficial to
the body but they just reproduce and
copy the same over and over and over and
that's where i think that the the
feedback network of capital it's just
more of the same for its own sake uh
what i like about dows is you know
something you say in greenpills is that
we can now program our values into our
money and that that's a you know a quote
from you
um i think that is fascinating
um and i guess the question for me then
becomes if we do program values into
money uh and particularly uh values that
produce [[public good|public goods]]
um how can we get people who are caught
up in legacy networks to want to become
part of
um yeah especially if those legacy
networks particularly of media and
education are so uh destructive in their
current setup how do we convince people
to want to do [[public good|public goods]] those are the
sorts to think of
yeah really great question
um oh man there's there's there's so
many divergent thoughts happening in my
brain but but we'll go with the most
recent one because i have a small
short-term memory uh so basically i i
think that there's an opportunity to
program our values and turn money in the
space and and this is why by the way
web3 is so hard to uh to process for
people you know it's like um
the old parable about the blind man and
the elephant where one of them feels it
and they're like this is a tusk and
another feels the uh or the tusk and
they're like this is a spear and then
the other one feels the leg and they're
like oh this is a tree trunk and then
the other one feels the tail and they're
like this is a uh uh a string and and in
some versions of the stories they even
come to blow because they don't even
agree that it's an elephant they're only
seeing part of it and to me that's what
what three feels like is like some
people are like oh it's monkey jpegs and
another person is like it's gonna
revolutionize finance because it's the
internet of money and now we can send
money across the computer network and
then you have someone else who who says
oh like i'm the [[public good|public goods]] guy and and
and i think that like that's what makes
it really hard to to grasp the the web
through things but like if we can try to
see the whole of the elephant it's that
we have the internet of money and now we
have [[open source]] money and we can
program our values into our money and
it's gonna be whatever our value systems
are so for some people it'll be monkey
jpegs and for some people it'll be
[[public good|public goods]] in like tokenized hacky
sacks is like like something that has
happened and this is the boulder
colorado version of programming your
values into your money but um but but
anyway so i guess like the the sort of
like prompt back to the audience is like
when will x happen and the answer is
when we build it and i think the key
thing is to have that diversity of value
systems and local currencies and
coordination technologies such that you
don't like you get a monolith like the
four criteria that you just mentioned uh
diversity of of value systems in deep
relationship with each other that are
distributed and metastable like what is
what is the gestalt of all the values in
web3 that can can bring it forward i
think is the systemic answer to your
question of how we we bring people in
and like maybe you'll come in because
you you bought a uh an ape jpeg but
you'll you'll stay because that uh board
ape yacht club hopefully in the future
uses get coin grants to do quadratic
funding and now you're making more money
off of uh working for for that than you
were off of your leg job like i think
there's a tipping point and there's
going to be multiple tipping points so
what does that bring up for you yeah
well i mean i i think banking honestly
is banking insecurities is where things
are going really going to be impacted by
yeah especially if you're not in the
united states like there's parts of the
world where you can't trust your local
bank at all yeah yeah well i mean defy i
mean all of a sudden anyone can become a
micro lender then that is revolutionary
because now the banks don't uh sort of
have a lock on being loners right so
anyone can loan
um and you know cutting out the
middlemen is just it's super easy once
everything is tokenized i think the fact
that banks may go out of business as an
industry
that's insane to think through uh the
fact that securities will be almost
impossible hopefully to forge that
things like naked shorting and all the
other sort of uh shenanigans that goes
on that the sec kind of turns a blind
eye to
um i mean i think financial industries
as we know that will be radically
transformed and sooner rather than later
in terms of this technology uh it's just
a matter of getting the protocols in
place but i think there's you know uh
you know i'm looking at stuff like
loopering level two and where that's
been going
um you know i think defy is coming and i
know that there are ways in which people
have tried to produce uh sort of
privatized versions of these things uh
people have said like well will will
there be fed coin and stuff like that
it's like the internet to the internet
back in when i was growing up yeah i
mean i i think finance is really where
this is going to be absolutely
disruptive
um and potentially a good way one of the
things i sort of think about is you know
i i i i believe in this this industry uh
as you do but like one of the things i
think about having founded bitcoin was
that we just kind of fell ass backwards
into an audience that understood
transactions in metamask and private key
management and so we're living our full
best web3 life get coin uh because
people understand how that last mile of
how to interact with these applications
but i wonder with defy if it's going to
be more like a blockchain mullet where
it's web 2 in the front and you don't
have to learn any like it and it's what
it's web3 in the back so like you don't
have to learn anything about private key
management transactions and installing
browser extensions or anything like that
and i think that that's one thing that's
really
you either either people are going to
get educated to use these protocols or
there's going to be things that look
more like a neo bank that that deploy
them that's going to unleash the network
ology of of define web 3 for people well
i think you know you look at the the
iphone and the revolutionary cultural
impact it had i mean i'm still shocked
that it's only 2007. right that that
technology has only been around for a
short period of time and yeah there were
blackberries beforehand but i mean it
was to some extent the fact that steve
jobs made it
um for you know for all the good and bad
that he has done
um he made it something that people
could get in a very simple way and that
led to mass adoption almost overnight
because he did take all of this far more
advanced stuff and package it in the
older forms uh you know supposedly he
walked around you know the offices uh
when they were developing with a piece
of wood that he kept in his shirt pocket
and he's like i need it like this you
know
um and so i think technology tends to
emerge in the skin of the old uh when
when cinema first came about people were
just like oh it's like the theater and
they were you know the very idea of a
close-up was something that people had
to think through and invent because they
were just like wait we can cut this
stuff we can paste it back together we
could do close-up shots like the idea of
different shots and editing that takes a
good decade or so and i think web 3 is
going to be the same way people are
gonna have to develop new ways of
thinking but i think when it starts it's
going to be packaged in the form of the
old yeah and it needs to be if it's
going to get mass adoption yeah totally
you know there's this idea of
skiomorphism which is the the digital
resembles the analog and you know my
favorite example of skew morphism is
yahoo and google having the same mission
which is to organize the world's
information but yahoo took the library
card catalog system and put it on the
internet and google just invented a new
form to interact with the information
and you know the rest is history but
like you know what what is the
non-scheomorphic future of the network
like can you take us there can you take
us to 2035 and what kind of weird
networkologies we're gonna see oh good
lord well i mean can you can you help
frame that question for me like like
what where can you say the the what was
it non-scheomorphic like non-skomorphic
yeah yeah like what's over the horizon
is the question i guess but it was just
that you know you don't have a crystal
ball so it's an unfair question but yeah
i mean when you're looking at what's
being done with evolutionary robotics
um you know morphological computation uh
you know all the stuff with new forms of
ai that are linked into bodies that are
linked into prediction algorithms and
the weighting of those predictions as
being more trustworthy less trustworthy
uh i think self-assembling robots
um robots that you know are sort of
based on very simple little modules that
then sort of evolve a social structure
um to produce either bodies or
communities of bodies like swarms on the
fly uh don't get me wrong i think it's
not coming anytime soon but you know
it's the sort of stuff if you look in
the research uh the military would die
for this stuff and so uh i i think the
big question is how are networks and
artificial intelligence uh how's that
stuff going to start interacting with
bodies in new ways and whether these be
uh prosthesis you know things like uh
augmentations and extensions of our
bodies
um what you know i i read somewhere that
they just came out with the first
um sort of hybrid organism type thing
made of frog cells and ai that we're
working together in various ways so i i
think uh if we look at the future future
we're talking about bodies uh you know
we're talking about uh possibly things
that you know might not even use silicon
chips that are cereal in nature
underneath the sort of uh network
structures that are you know you look at
say artificial neural networks they're
distributed on top but the underneath is
a serial chip
um and you know if you can start to use
molecules to do your computing uh you
know know but we're talking far in the
horizon for this sort of stuff
um then you really cross an inflection
point but you know these are the sorts
of things that i'm like you know
people are actually working on some of
this stuff and you don't know when they
cross a you know a sort of boundary
point threshold yeah yeah so for you do
you do you apply the lens of networks to
this where basically the chip and the
the cells are just both part of a
network and they're speaking the same
the same protocol but now there's sort
of hybrid things that are enabled by the
digital and and the biological
um well i think it really comes down to
what's the structure of the network you
know you're saying the scientists will
talk about the topology of the network
right what's the shape is the shape
centralized is it decentralized or yeah
you know i i think more more act is it
distributed
how is it distributed and is there a
sort of sneaky level of centralization
underneath uh you know and if we're
talking computationally speaking we're
talking about code or talking hardware
uh and then it's a question of access
who has access to that who is the right
change the protocols uh how is that
negotiated uh these are the issues that
i think really
um determined on how
how not only emergence but how fair a
network is in certain ways so a network
could be urgent like capitalism is
emergent just in very restricted ways
it's emergent the production of new
products uh to give rise to more profits
but that doesn't mean it leads to the
types of qualitative emergences uh that
could actually you know serve life
beyond those sorts of things yeah you
know where my mind goes is we talked
about brains being reinforcement
learning driven so basically you know if
you give a mouse a cookie they get
trained on you know that sugar rush that
comes from that and and you know the
argument that one that i that i've heard
is that capitalism as it exists right
now is just a giant paper clip maximizer
and and you know for people who don't
get that analogy there's there's this
thing about ais which is like if you if
you had an ai and you told it it needed
to maximize the amount of paper clips on
earth like at first it's going to be
really efficient at producing a
paperclip store on amazon but then
eventually it might turn the whole world
into paper clips because it's just
maximizing on that one heuristic and
with capitalism the analogy here is that
it turns the world into financial profit
uh price to earnings ratio and so you
know i guess my question is how would
you design a network that's designed
around human thriving and
um i don't know let's let's call it
instead of a gdp uh gross domestic uh
thriving or gross domestic lack of
suffering uh more oriented around more
human things as opposed to uh just
profit you know but is there any way
that you can apply a network or logical
lens to to that kind of question
well i i like how you put it that now we
can program our values into our money uh
you know and so like right now we've got
one type of sort of meat space token and
that's you know a fiat currency produced
by dollars yeah yeah
um and those tend to you know be kept so
abstract in terms of how they circulate
that basically whoever has the most gets
to set the terms for the rest and that
gets codified into laws and social norms
and institutions uh and so i think web3
is really a chance to start
experimenting with new forms
um that can lead to different types of
institutions
um and that don't have to you know rely
on geographic uh nearness uh in order to
really get off the ground so when we're
talking about nation states you know
everything relies on the fact that they
share the same piece of territory but if
you have you know like i think of things
like you know man there's so many
different types of debt in the world and
their student loan debt there's housing
debt there's consumer debt there's
international debt between countries if
all the debtors in the world which don't
necessarily see themselves as having
anything in common if they all started
to see themselves as having something in
common and forming unions and they
decided to go on strike
the entire global economy would grind to
a halt and people could negotiate
um you know better terms for their loans
and actually make capital change make
the whole system change and that is
something that
could be facilitated by web3 but it's
also just a change of mindset you know
people who were you know we tend to
think of debt as like oh if you owe
money it's immoral but predatory lending
is you know that's what created the
whole 2008 crisis and so often is used
to control and i think you know
particularly with student loan debt we
see the ways in which you can't do what
you want to do after college if you take
on debt because what you can do has to
be centered around paying off those
loans and so
if we start seeing debt differently and
we start seeing the systems and
relations and start seeing money
differently uh i think uh those sort of
mindset changes they can be spurred by
web3 they can be facilitated by web3 but
i think some of the big battles that
need to be fought are actually on the
level of values in the very
old-fashioned sense uh do we want a
world that is centralized do we want a
world in which a few people get to
control things and i think you know web3
may provide the technology for doing all
sorts of different things but if we
can't convince people to use that stuff
and use it differently uh or if people
don't start using it and then give rise
to different results
um we're going to end up in the same log
jams and you know you look at say how
facial recognition software uh was
trained on such a limited data set and
ended up only being able to then
recognize largely the faces of uh white
men of a certain age because that's is
what was largely on the internet uh and
like if you look at the data set that
you know google and facebook used as
they were developing these technologies
facebook eventually used um labeled
faces in the wild as their data set uh
and they were you know some of the most
commonly labeled faces available on the
internet and they train their neural
networks to identify them but it just so
happened quote unquote that these were
largely of white men of a certain age
because those were the people who tended
to get famous online
um and so the networks were very bad at
recognizing children people of color
women older people
um and that's where the biases of the
data set got imported into the structure
of the algorithm uh and i think we need
to think about how those things happen
and how they can happen as we develop
these new technologies how can biases
get imported in ways that we might even
have difficulty recognizing until it's
already baked in
right yeah i mean i think that you know
you just painted such a beautiful
picture of of i think what could be
built here and you know where my mind
goes is that this is a feedback loop
between change of self uh and change of
systems and and so changing our values
and building monetary systems around
those values is not just a technology
thing but it's also a cultural and
experiential thing and what's the
feedback loop that's sigmergently gets
people coordinating around whatever
their shared needs are and one of the
things i'm really excited i think you
and i emailed maybe a little bit about
local currencies but you know in the
world in which everything collapses to
us dollars or everything it collapses to
bitcoin you're going to get things that
optimize for the value systems of of of
of those networks and one of the things
i'm really kind of think is interesting
about this decentralized modular
ecosystem of web3 that's being built and
some of the these these monetary systems
are much smaller is that you could have
a local currency around i don't know
supporting downtown boulder businesses
you get a boulder coin you could have uh
[[public good|public goods]] coin you could have a regen
coin and and and basically what this
allows you to do is to have monetary
systems that are equal to the value of
the gdp of that monetary system they
have that leverage against the global
system but within them they're optimized
around a certain value and and i'm
wondering if that might be a scalable
architecture that has all those
properties that we talked about earlier
like you know the gestalt of that is is
uh diversity and distributed uh
metastability that that allows for
scaling of of more regeneration in the
world so i know this is like a leading
question but i got it but i guess i'm
just wondering uh
how you view local currencies as as a
pillar of this thing sure i mean i i
would say as many currencies as there
are locales uh you know why not it makes
sense but not you know just i'm sorry to
interrupt i just want to interject like
we're not talking about physical locales
we're talking about uh dramatic locales
also yeah absolutely it does not have to
be physical locales um you know i think
the what a token can be used for is wide
open and will become wide open in ways
it hadn't been before it makes me think
of you know when people are like well
what is the basic sort of
um building block of society
um and a lot of people would say if you
look at a lot of societies around the
world throughout history there's forms
of ritual and there's forms of
storytelling around that and you produce
artifacts when you produce rituals
things like sacrifices and implements
and altars and i'm talking about you
know back in the you know mists of
prehistory and you know where like what
is it that brings group together and
it's recognition of the importance of
certain actions and so i think when you
recognize a token as being of value uh
that is a group that is saying yeah we
all recognize that thing as being
valuable and in accepting a token in
giving a token you're reproducing a
certain type of group uh and i think
when we look at the ways in which uh
sacrifices and rituals were done in the
earliest parts of humanity
um when we look at how myths were
produced in relation to that i think
there's a continuum from that to uh you
know the production of economies the
production of languages uh where
languages we tend to think of as the
production of tokens that hold meanings
uh and by tokens i mean everything from
written words to spoken utterances uh
you know if linguists will often refer
to those as tokens
um and so if you think of language and
sort of monetary economies as two
different types of token systems and you
see those on a continuum emerging from
things like ritual and myth then the
potentials for what tokens could become
i think really opens up in certain ways
and so when people start talking about
you can use tokens not only to represent
money type things but bundles of rights
identities social roles uh you know
those who have a certain number of
tokens get the right to vote in certain
situations get the right to change the
code in certain organizations i think
the sky is the limit when a group when a
group recognizes a token as having a
certain function there's meaning and
value there in regard to how that group
understands itself and modulates its
processes uh so i think what tokens can
become is really open and i think we
should start to think of it in these
sorts of big terms
yeah you know one of the we the things
that i got out of the network ologies
book is this idea of networks of
networks and one of the things that sort
of gets interesting for me is not just
the internal consistency of how uh one
of these local currency networks
works but also what is the arbitrage
between the local currency and the
global currency you know if i've got
like i i don't i i don't know like
tomato coin or um let's just call it
[[public good|public goods]] coin uh because that's
that's a more internet native thing and
i think a fit for ethereum is like does
the how does that relate to the
multi-trillion dollar bitcoin slash u.s
dollar global hegemony coins it how are
they are they valued in relation to each
other how does how does one become
bigger or smaller uh within the network
of networks it is and it feels like to
me the answer is the gdp of how many
[[public good|public goods]] or are coming out of public
goods coin dao or tomatoes are coming
out of tomato dow creates the demand
from the global system into that local
systems values and there's almost like
an exchange rate between the two but
there's there's kind of like a
geopolitical game or whatever whatever
network a network political game because
we're not using physical here between
the local currency and the global
currency in relation to how they're
valued with each other and and i'm
wondering what other attributes of these
networks inside of the networks that you
that you kind of see here this this
might be abstract and far out question
i'm not sure if you're totally following
but uh you know how do these networks
embed in each other i guess is the
question i'm asking
um i i mean if you look at the history
of money uh and angst these sorts of
issues were like they were huge you know
like should the value of a coin be
determined by the content of its gold uh
the purity of its silver should it be
determined by a completely floating uh
you know set of exchanges
internationally speaking so if you look
in in regard to the bank of england
there were these massive debates in the
1600s between do we make the value of
our currency equal to uh actual species
actual you know blocks of silver and the
weight of those or do we let the value
float in relationship to international
trade and other currencies and it wasn't
really until the 19 well yeah i guess
until the 19th century that you start
seeing people sort of being like okay
it's not really about the silver it's
really about the social relationships
and the the ways in which different
countries value our currency and buy it
and use it even though that was kind of
the way things were for quite a while
right so you know even though they kept
saying like oh it's based in the silver
oh it's based in the silver uh and so
when you know when you see nixon take
things off the gold standard things had
been going that way for you know
hundreds of years you could say uh when
it comes to uh different you know
currencies exchanging off these sort of
uh meta currencies we could think of it
you know like us dollar is i mean it's a
global reserve currency at this point
it's the the sort of meta money of the
whole globe you could say
um
i think the problem is that when things
freely exchange against something like
that
um very often the biggest kid on the
block gets to set the terms for all the
others and i think there's so much that
could be done with monetary policy where
you pump money into the system using
t-bills and reserve uh banking and i
mean quantitative mechanisms
quantitative easing and all that sort of
stuff where i mean the fed's just been
printing trillions of dollars and you
know they used to sort of say when they
were putting money into the economy now
they have all these sly methods of doing
it
um where people don't even know exactly
how much money the fed's been slipping
in you don't have to print it anymore
you don't have to print it anymore it it
you know you do it through reverse repo
and stuff like that and you know this
money just sort of slowly leaks into the
economy in various ways uh and all they
had to do was move some digits on a
balance sheet uh i think if you're
playing on a completely level playing
field with that stuff it will make your
system uh take on aspects of whatever
the most dominant system is and this is
it gets the age-old question of like do
you want to have protectionist barriers
around your dow in relationship to
what's outside of it
um and you know a lot of people say no
we want you know free exchange but free
exchange tends to let capitalism do its
thing uh so i i think these are
complicated questions
yeah yeah for sure uh well hopefully the
lens of networks and networkologies will
be useful as we tackle these questions i
know i certainly got a lot out of
reading the networkologies book so
um i think that at this point we should
probably start converging towards
wrapping up this conversation or
although it's been immense and and
beautiful and diverse uh in its own way
so
um first point for the listeners is get
the network allergies book there'll be a
link in the show notes but it seems like
you're working on a on a sequel or at
least several sequels so tell me where
you're taking this yeah i mean it's kind
of hard for me to work on one project at
a time so i've i've got several books
that are just sort of networking out in
separate directions and i'm i'm working
to keep them all on the same page even
as they grow in different ways and so
the the probably the first book that i
hope will hit the market is um one
that's about neuroscience and uh the
ways in which artificial neural networks
function and how this sort of the mind
body split has been deconstructed by a
lot of the developments in contemporary
neuroscience and artificial intelligence
and also developments in cognitive
science and robotics and things of that
sort and so really looking at where
computation uh and studies of the brain
are going in terms of networking and
what we can learn about that in regard
to the wider issues of what it means to
think in culture uh what it means for
cultures to think and process social
change so that one i'm calling the
networked mind
um and i'm going to send out the uh it's
basically written in the book proposal
for that should go out uh hopefully
within the next month but then i've got
this five book series uh that i'm
working on that sort of takes network
allergies to kind of the next level and
one of this one of these looks at the
relationship of the science of networks
sort of complex systems and emergence
and sort of pulls out these four
principles of emergence that i uh you
know spoke about earlier another one
looks at you know the the studying of
experience in everyday life uh and you
know in philosophy that's called
phenomenology so it how can everyday
life be seen as a process of networking
you know very concrete stuff like well
you know you're feeling states and your
senses and things of that sort uh then
there's a book on i'm calling it grammar
power at the moment uh and yeah most of
these are written at this point it's
just a matter of finishing the footnotes
and stuff and so this book on grammar
power is about uh systems of meaning and
systems of value from languages to
economies and so the issue of what's a
token uh is huge in relation to this
um and then i've got stuff that's going
you know networks of uh cognition and
emotion you know how this works in the
body and brain uh so you know these are
the projects i'm working on there's
several and i'm not sure which one's
gonna hit the market first but i'll put
everything on my website uh as these
things are they're all kind of
approaching the final stage uh so i'm
hoping in the next you know probably two
years or so you'll start seeing some of
these in print
great yeah uh we'll we'll uh we'll put a
link to your website as well in the show
notes and people will check out the
series of books so i guess i should say
the network of books yes uh i'll post
everything on the website as things are
coming out yeah and then you know
consider myself in the greenpill
audience to be a bridge into the weird
world of web3 if you ever uh if we could
ever bait you into building uh doing a
book about the network of dowels or the
network of networks within dials i think
it would be interesting to hit that
frontier together but uh thank you for
spending the hour and a half recording
this conversation with me i think that
was really great cool great to meet you
and totally psyched to you know hear
more about this yeah same all right well
uh last question where can people find
you online
uh networkologies.wordpress.com
cool yeah all right well thank you so
much christopher really appreciate the
the stimulating discussion cool thank
you as well take care bye guys
[music]